.\" Manpage for lls-preproc
.TH LLS-PREPROC 1 "May 2025" "LLScript Manual" "LLScript User Commands"

.SH NAME
lls-preproc \- LLScript preprocessor for command annotations

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lls -p
.I input.c
.RI [ output.c ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B lls-preproc
is a source-level preprocessor that parses special comment annotations in C files to generate runtime code required for LLScript integration. It processes functions marked with
.B @cmd
,
.B @pre
, and
.B @post
comment tags, transforming them into LLScript-compatible command handlers and lifecycle hooks.

.SH COMMENT ANNOTATIONS

The preprocessor recognizes special single-line comments that begin with
.B @cmd
,
.B @pre
, or
.B @post
. These must occur immediately before a valid function declaration with the expected signature and format.

.TP
.B @cmd [!name]
Declares a function as an LLScript command.

The function must be of the form:
.PP
.EX
void *fnname(...);
.EE
.PP
Optionally, a custom command name can be provided after
.B @cmd
(only names starting with \fB!\fR are valid). If no name is given, the function's name is used.

Each argument must be a supported LLScript argument type (see below).

Example:
.PP
.EX
//@cmd !mycommand
void *cmd_do_something(char *arg1, int arg2) {
    ...
}
.EE

.TP
.B @pre
Declares a function to be called before any command runs.

The function must be of the form:
.PP
.EX
void pre_fn(void);
.EE

.TP
.B @post
Declares a function to be called after any command runs.

The function must be of the form:
.PP
.EX
void post_fn(void);
.EE

.SH SUPPORTED ARGUMENT TYPES

.B @cmd
functions may only use arguments that correspond to built-in LLScript argument types:
.TS
l l.
char *	arg_str
int	arg_int
float	arg_flt
bool	arg_bool
.TE

The preprocessor emits code to initialize these variables from the LLScript runtime before the function body executes.

.SH CODE GENERATION

The preprocessor rewrites tagged functions with boilerplate code. Specifically:

.TP
.B Command Declaration
Each
.B @cmd
function is wrapped in a call to
.B LLS_declare_command(...)
or
.B LLS_declare_command_custom_name(...)
depending on whether a custom name was provided.

.TP
.B Argument Initialization
Each argument is automatically initialized using:
.PP
.EX
char *arg = LLS_arg_str(index);
int arg = LLS_arg_int(index);
...
.EE

.TP
.B Lifecycle Hooks
Functions marked with
.B @pre
or
.B @post
are registered as:
.PP
.EX
__lls_preproc_callables.pre = __LLS_pre;
__lls_preproc_callables.post = __LLS_post;
.EE

.TP
.B Registration Function
At the end of the processed file, the function:
.PP
.EX
void __lls_preproc_register_commands(void)
.EE
is emitted to register all commands and hooks with the LLScript runtime.

.SH ERRORS

The preprocessor is strict. It will exit with an error if:

.TP
.B \- A @cmd tag precedes a non-\fBvoid *\fR function
.TP
.B \- The function lacks a body
.TP
.B \- The function name does not start with '!'
(if a custom name is given)
.TP
.B \- @pre/@post tags precede non-void->void functions

Errors are reported with source context using the
.B fprint_context(...)
helper.

.SH ENVIRONMENT

None.

.SH FILES

.B input.c
.RS
Original annotated C source file.

.B output.c
.RS
Transformed file, if output path is given.

.SH SEE ALSO

.BR lls (1),
.BR gcc (1),
.BR lld (1)

.SH AUTHOR
Maxime Delhaye
