.\" lls.5 — LLScript language specification
.\" Manual page written by Maxime Delhaye
.Dd May 30, 2025
.Dt LLS 5
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm lls
.Nd syntax of the LLScript interpreted command format
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm LLScript
is a minimal, natural-language-inspired scripting format for invoking
programmer-defined commands with arguments.
It is designed to be lexed and parsed by a simple runtime in C, with command
execution delegated to statically registered functions.
.Sh SYNTAX
A script consists of zero or more
.Em commands ,
each beginning with an exclamation mark
.Sq \&!
followed by a command name and a parenthesized, comma-separated argument list:
.Pp
.Dl !command_name(arg1, arg2, ..., argN)
.Pp
Commands may be separated by newlines or comments.
Comments are any non-keyword, non-command text, and are ignored.
.Sh COMMANDS
Each command must follow this structure:
.Bl -bullet
.It
Start with a
.Sq \&!
character.
.It
Follow with a valid identifier (alphanumeric with underscores).
.It
Include an open parenthesis
.Sq \&(
, zero or more arguments separated by commas, and a closing parenthesis
.Sq \&).
.El
.Sh ARGUMENTS
Arguments to commands are comma-separated and may be one of:
.Bl -tag -width "Boolean"
.It String
A sequence of characters inside double quotes, e.g.
.Dq "hello world" .
No escaping is supported.
.It Integer
A base-10 number, e.g.
.Dq 42
or
.Dq -7 .
.It Float
A number with a decimal point, e.g.
.Dq 3.14 ,
.Dq 0.5 ,
or
.Dq .0 .
.It Boolean
The literal values
.Dq true
or
.Dq false .
Case-sensitive.
.El
.Sh GRAMMAR
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Script
.Op Comment
*(Command | Comment)
.It Command
.Dq \&!
Identifier
.Dq \&(
.Op ArgList
.Dq \&)
.It ArgList
Arg
.Op
{ ,
Arg }
.It Arg
String | Integer | Float | Boolean
.It String
.Dq \&"
non-quote characters
.Dq \&"
.It Integer
digit+
.It Float
.Op digit+
.Dq \&.
digit+
.It Boolean
.Dq true | false
.It Comment
Any token not matching the command or keyword rules.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bd -literal -offset indent
!print("hello", true)
!set_health(100)
!add_position(12, 8.5)
just a comment
!noop()
.Ed
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
All validation is deferred to the execution layer. Typical errors include:
.Bl -bullet
.It
Unrecognized command names
.It
Malformed command syntax
.It
Invalid argument types or counts
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr lls 1
.Sh AUTHORS
Maxime Delhaye
